README.md, before:

# Neon Minerva
Neon Minerva (Modular INtelligent Evaluation for a Reliable Voice Assistant) 
provides tools for testing skills.

Install the Minerva Python package with: `pip install neon-minerva`
The `minerva` entrypoint is available to interact with a bus via CLI. 
Help is available via `minerva --help`.

## Installation
If testing Padatious intents, the following system packages must be 
installed before installing this package:
```shell
sudo apt install swig libfann-dev
```
To install this package from PyPI, simply run:
```shell
pip install neon-minerva
```

If testing with Padatious, install with the `padatious` extras:
```shell
pip install neon-minerva[padatious]
```

## Usage
This package provides a CLI for local testing of skills. Skills installed with 
`pip` can be specified by entrypoint, or skills cloned locally can be specified
by root directory.

### Resource Tests
To test that skill resources are defined for all supported languages,
`minerva test-resources <skill-entrypoint> <test-file>`
> - <skill-entrypoint\> is the string entrypoint for the skill to test as specified in `setup.py` OR the path to 
    the skill's root directory 
> - <test-file\> is a relative or absolute path to the resource test file, usually `test_resources.yaml`

example `test_resources.yaml`:
```yaml
# Specify resources to test here.

# Specify languages to be tested
languages:
  - "en-us"
  - "uk-ua"

# vocab is lowercase .voc file basenames
vocab:
  - ip
  - public
  - query

# dialog is .dialog file basenames (case-sensitive)
dialog:
  - dot
  - my address is
  - my address on X is Y
  - no network connection
  - word_public
  - word_local
# regex entities, not necessarily filenames
regex: []
intents:
  # Padatious intents are the `.intent` file names
  padatious: []
  # Adapt intents are the name passed to the constructor
  adapt:
    - IPIntent
```

### Intent Tests
To test that skill intents match as expected for all supported languages,
`minerva test-intents <skill-entrypoint> <test-file>`
> - <skill-entrypoint\> is the string entrypoint for the skill to test as specified in `setup.py` OR the path to 
    the skill's root directory 
> - <test-file\> is a relative or absolute path to the resource test file, usually `test_intents.yaml`
> - The `--padacioso` flag can be added to test with Padacioso instead of Padatious for relevant intents

example `test_intents.yaml`:
```yaml
en-us:
  IPIntent:
  - what is your ip address
  - what is my ip address:
    - IP
  - what is my i.p. address
  - What is your I.P. address?
  - what is my public IP address?:
    - public: public

uk-ua:
  IPIntent:
  - шо в мене за ай пі:
    - IP  
  - покажи яка в мене за мережа:
    - IP
  - покажи яка в мене публічний ай пі адреса:
    - public: публічний
```

#### Test Configuration
The following top-level sections can be added to intent test configuration:

- `unmatched intents`: dict of `lang` to list of `utterances` that should match 
  no intents. Note that this does not test for CommonQuery or CommonPlay matches.
- `common query`: dict of `lang` to list of `utterances` OR dict of `utterances`
  to expected: `callback_data` (list keys or dict data), `min_confidence`, and
  `max_confidence`
- `common play`: TBD

## Advanced Usage
In addition to convenient CLI methods, this package also provides test cases that
may be extended.

### Skill Unit Tests
`neon_minerva.tests.skill_unit_test_base` provides `SkillTestCase`, a class
that supplies boilerplate setup/teardown/mocking for testing a skill. An example
skill test implementation could look like:

```python
from os import environ
from neon_minerva.tests.skill_unit_test_base import SkillTestCase

environ['TEST_SKILL_ENTRYPOINT'] = "my_skill.test"

class MySkillTest(SkillTestCase):
    def test_skill_init(self):
        self.assertEqual(self.skill.skill_id, "my_skill.test")
    ...
```

Be sure to review the base class for mocked methods and test paths as these may
change in the future.

### Chatbot Unit Tests
`neon_minerva.chatbots` contains mocked data for testing as well as some utility
methods. `neon_minerva.tests.chatbot_v1_test_base` provides `TestSubmind` which
may be extended to test a submind bot in a mocked v1 environment. For example:

```python
from os import environ
from datetime import datetime
from chatbot_core.utils.enum import ConversationState

from neon_minerva.tests.chatbot_v1_test_base import TestSubmind
from neon_minerva.chatbots.test_constants import PROMPT, RESPONSES

environ["TEST_BOT_ENTRYPOINT"] = "tester"


class TestTester(TestSubmind):
    def test_submind_chatbot(self):
        self.submind.state = ConversationState.RESP
        response = self.submind.ask_chatbot("testrunner", PROMPT,
                                            datetime.now().strftime(
                                                "%I:%M:%S %p"))
        self.assertIsInstance(response, str)
        self.assertIsNotNone(response)
```
> Make sure to install the `chatbots` extra to use this test case

Commit message:

Update readme to document `ready event` config

README.md, after:

# Neon Minerva
Neon Minerva (Modular INtelligent Evaluation for a Reliable Voice Assistant) 
provides tools for testing skills.

Install the Minerva Python package with: `pip install neon-minerva`
The `minerva` entrypoint is available to interact with a bus via CLI. 
Help is available via `minerva --help`.

## Installation
If testing Padatious intents, the following system packages must be 
installed before installing this package:
```shell
sudo apt install swig libfann-dev
```
To install this package from PyPI, simply run:
```shell
pip install neon-minerva
```

If testing with Padatious, install with the `padatious` extras:
```shell
pip install neon-minerva[padatious]
```

## Usage
This package provides a CLI for local testing of skills. Skills installed with 
`pip` can be specified by entrypoint, or skills cloned locally can be specified
by root directory.

### Resource Tests
To test that skill resources are defined for all supported languages,
`minerva test-resources <skill-entrypoint> <test-file>`
> - <skill-entrypoint\> is the string entrypoint for the skill to test as specified in `setup.py` OR the path to 
    the skill's root directory 
> - <test-file\> is a relative or absolute path to the resource test file, usually `test_resources.yaml`

example `test_resources.yaml`:
```yaml
# Specify resources to test here.

# Specify languages to be tested
languages:
  - "en-us"
  - "uk-ua"

# vocab is lowercase .voc file basenames
vocab:
  - ip
  - public
  - query

# dialog is .dialog file basenames (case-sensitive)
dialog:
  - dot
  - my address is
  - my address on X is Y
  - no network connection
  - word_public
  - word_local
# regex entities, not necessarily filenames
regex: []
intents:
  # Padatious intents are the `.intent` file names
  padatious: []
  # Adapt intents are the name passed to the constructor
  adapt:
    - IPIntent
```

### Intent Tests
To test that skill intents match as expected for all supported languages,
`minerva test-intents <skill-entrypoint> <test-file>`
> - <skill-entrypoint\> is the string entrypoint for the skill to test as specified in `setup.py` OR the path to 
    the skill's root directory 
> - <test-file\> is a relative or absolute path to the resource test file, usually `test_intents.yaml`
> - The `--padacioso` flag can be added to test with Padacioso instead of Padatious for relevant intents

example `test_intents.yaml`:
```yaml
en-us:
  IPIntent:
  - what is your ip address
  - what is my ip address:
    - IP
  - what is my i.p. address
  - What is your I.P. address?
  - what is my public IP address?:
    - public: public

uk-ua:
  IPIntent:
  - шо в мене за ай пі:
    - IP  
  - покажи яка в мене за мережа:
    - IP
  - покажи яка в мене публічний ай пі адреса:
    - public: публічний
```

#### Test Configuration
The following top-level sections can be added to intent test configuration:

- `unmatched intents`: dict of `lang` to list of `utterances` that should match 
  no intents. Note that this does not test for CommonQuery or CommonPlay matches.
- `common query`: dict of `lang` to list of `utterances` OR dict of `utterances`
  to expected: `callback_data` (list keys or dict data), `min_confidence`, and
  `max_confidence`
- `common play`: TBD
- `ready event`: Optional event name to wait for before starting tests. For example,
  a skill may set `_update_event` after doing some long-running process at initialization;
  configuring `ready event: _update_event` means intent tests will not start until
  the skill has updated and is ready to handle inputs.
## Advanced Usage
In addition to convenient CLI methods, this package also provides test cases that
may be extended.

### Skill Unit Tests
`neon_minerva.tests.skill_unit_test_base` provides `SkillTestCase`, a class
that supplies boilerplate setup/teardown/mocking for testing a skill. An example
skill test implementation could look like:

```python
from os import environ
from neon_minerva.tests.skill_unit_test_base import SkillTestCase

environ['TEST_SKILL_ENTRYPOINT'] = "my_skill.test"

class MySkillTest(SkillTestCase):
    def test_skill_init(self):
        self.assertEqual(self.skill.skill_id, "my_skill.test")
    ...
```

Be sure to review the base class for mocked methods and test paths as these may
change in the future.

### Chatbot Unit Tests
`neon_minerva.chatbots` contains mocked data for testing as well as some utility
methods. `neon_minerva.tests.chatbot_v1_test_base` provides `TestSubmind` which
may be extended to test a submind bot in a mocked v1 environment. For example:

```python
from os import environ
from datetime import datetime
from chatbot_core.utils.enum import ConversationState

from neon_minerva.tests.chatbot_v1_test_base import TestSubmind
from neon_minerva.chatbots.test_constants import PROMPT, RESPONSES

environ["TEST_BOT_ENTRYPOINT"] = "tester"


class TestTester(TestSubmind):
    def test_submind_chatbot(self):
        self.submind.state = ConversationState.RESP
        response = self.submind.ask_chatbot("testrunner", PROMPT,
                                            datetime.now().strftime(
                                                "%I:%M:%S %p"))
        self.assertIsInstance(response, str)
        self.assertIsNotNone(response)
```
> Make sure to install the `chatbots` extra to use this test case
